---
title: PHP Extensions
---

# PHP Extensions

To enable no built-in extensions, you have to install them manually.

## imagick

Download binary from <https://windows.php.net/downloads/pecl/releases/imagick/>

Example with for PHP 8.1 and Imagick v3.7.0, I choose `php_imagick-3.7.0-8.1-nts-vs16-x64.zip` from <https://windows.php.net/downloads/pecl/releases/imagick/3.7.0/>

- Extract archive locally.
- Find `php_imagick.dll` into archive and move it to `C:\Users\USERNAME\scoop\apps\php-nts\current\ext`
- Locate all other `.dll` files and move it to `C:\Users\USERNAME\scoop\apps\php-nts\current`
- Add `extension=imagick` to `C:\Users\USERNAME\scoop\apps\php8.1-nts\current\php.ini` at the top of the file

Check if `imagick` works (with `grep` from `scoop`)

```sh
php -m | grep imagick
```

## rar

Download binary from <https://windows.php.net/downloads/pecl/releases/rar/>

Example with for PHP 8.1 and RAR v4.2.0, I choose `php_rar-4.2.0-8.1-nts-vs16-x64.zip` from <https://windows.php.net/downloads/pecl/releases/rar/4.2.0/>

- Extract archive locally.
- Find `php_rar.dll` into archive and move it to `C:\Users\USERNAME\scoop\apps\php-nts\current\ext`
- Add `extension=rar` to `C:\Users\USERNAME\scoop\apps\php8.1-nts\current\php.ini` at the top of the file

Check if `rar` works (with `grep` from `scoop`)

```sh
php -m | grep rar
```

## pcov

Download binary from <https://windows.php.net/downloads/pecl/releases/pcov/>

Example with for PHP 8.1 and PCOV v1.0.11, I choose `php_pcov-1.0.11-8.1-nts-vs16-x64.zip` from <https://windows.php.net/downloads/pecl/releases/pcov/1.0.11/>

- Extract archive locally.
- Find `php_pcov.dll` into archive and move it to `C:\Users\USERNAME\scoop\apps\php-nts\current\ext`
- Add `extension=pcov` to `C:\Users\USERNAME\scoop\apps\php8.1-nts\current\php.ini` at the top of the file

Check if `pcov` works (with `grep` from `scoop`)

```sh
php -m | grep pcov
```

## How to choose a version?

I could be difficult to choose a version of extension, so I will explain how to choose a version.

### PHP Version

```ps1
php -i | find "PHP Version"
```

```[output]
PHP Version => 8.1.17
```

PHP version is PHP 8.1, so I take the `php_imagick-*-8.1-*.zip` version.

::alert{type="warning"}
**Note**

> If you don't find your PHP version in all versions, your PHP version could be too recent, you have to wait before `imagick` release for your PHP version.
> ::

### Thread Safety

```ps1
php -i | find "Thread Safety"
```

```[output]
Thread Safety => disabled
```

Thread Safety is disabled, so I take the `php_imagick-*-nts-*.zip` version (`nts` for Non Thread Safe).

### Architecture

You have to install `grep` with `scoop`

```ps1
php -i | grep "Architecture"
```

```[output]
Architecture => x64
```

Architecture is `x64`, so I take the `php_imagick-*x64.zip` version.
